My name is John Wright.
I run the Kernel
Technologies Group at Apple.
I'll be talking to you a little bit
about what's new in the kernel today.
So we're going to go through kind of
just an overview of what the kernel
does and kind of some background on it.
Then we're going to talk
a little bit about some
developer features for Leopard,
particularly some things
that relate to 64-bit,
some of our Unix interfaces,
and some things about system tracing.
And then we're going to cover some
infrastructure changes for Leopard,
including things that cover scaling
and working on larger machines
and some implications to security.
And then we'll have some time for QA.
So target audience.
So the kernel is really kind of the
lowest level in the software stack,
and it kind of runs right on the,
enables the bare iron of the hardware.
So most of you guys are
actually implementing to
much higher level frameworks.
But it is still of interest to some
of you to kind of understand the lower
level mechanisms that's underlying those,
and just in general the
system behaviors of those.
Now,
a lot of times when people think kernel,
they'll think device drivers,
and the I/O Kit interfaces.
And I'm not covering those.
Those are actually covered
in some other talks.
But I want to make sure you guys
understand that if you guys are expecting
I/O Kit interfaces to be covered,
they're actually covered elsewhere.
So this is your basic block
diagram of the kernel architecture.
You'll see here on the right,
you've got a few libraries.
There's the standalone library
that actually is used for
the boot infrastructure.
libkern,
which is basically some routines that
are generic in the kernel that are used.
And the platform expert,
which kind of abstracts away
some of the lower level hardware
details away from the kernel.
Down here at the Mach layer
you have virtual memory,
the physical mapping memory,
the scheduler,
the abstraction of tasks and threads,
your timers,
your low-level primitives for
symmetric multi-processing,
all important Mach IPC, messaging.
There's also some device driver
infrastructure in I/O Kit,
which really isn't in Mach,
it's actually kind of separated.
and
And then on top of that,
we built the BSD layer,
which includes our POSIX interfaces,
P threads, processes, signals,
our Unix security model, VFS,
which exports all the file system
infrastructure out to the file system,
some of which are in the kernel,
some of which are outside the kernel.
And you also have some of the
networking infrastructure,
the sockets and the networking stack.
Now, other talks are actually going to
cover some of the file system and
the networking and I/O Kit stuff.
So I'm really trying to focus
kind of on the core kernel
infrastructure here in this talk.
and some of the talks,
there are other talks that
relate to these things,
but the writing device drivers for
Mac OS X covers the basics of I/O Kit,
and there's a talk dedicated to what's
new in the file systems as well.
So I just want to say a little
bit about target customers.
Since we are kind of the lowest
level of the software stack,
most of our target customers
actually end up being our frameworks.
And then most of you guys are actually
developing to those frameworks.
But those frameworks actually
percolate up directly to you
guys and to our end users.
So it is important for us to
kind of see the stack as a whole.
As far as where we get influence
on how we develop the kernel,
what really drives us is the internal
innovations that happen within the stack.
At Apple, we're unique in that we control
the hardware architecture and the
entire software stack all the way
out through the frameworks and all
the way out to the applications.
We do a lot of optimizations
directly with our framework teams,
but we also drive this really
through looking at the whole widget.
We interface with the hardware
teams and the framework teams,
and we take requests from
apps to really figure out how
this thing can be optimized.
We continue to be influenced
by external sources.
We're always looking at industry trends
and standards and seeing how they'll
affect the way our software works.
We're always interested in technology
our partners are working on and seeing
whether we can take advantage of that.
We're always looking at the
open source community and
helping what they're driving.
And probably the most important here
is actually requests from you guys.
Our developer relations team actually
takes requests from you guys and passes
them on to the engineering team and
helps make that relationship work.
And we take those
requests very seriously.
So when you guys come up with
an idea of how we can actually
optimize things for you guys,
I encourage you guys to send that in.
I want to talk a little bit
about performance philosophy.
Our focus is really improving
the system level performance.
And I have a quote up there, lies,
damn lies, and micro benchmarks.
I've seen a lot of things that
show micro benchmarks between
different operating systems.
They're of less interest to us
because there's something that
we've kind of learned here.
That if you look at like LM Bench,
which was written for Linux,
Linux runs really well with LM Bench.
If you look at something like Lib Micro,
which was written for Solaris,
Solaris runs very well in Lib Micro.
And we run another micro
benchmark called Mach Bench,
and you probably won't be surprised.
That we do pretty well in Mach Bench.
So we use these micro
benchmarks as a tool to kind of
understand what our kernel does,
but we're much more focused on
the system level benchmarks.
And Apple has several teams that
run system level benchmarks both
on the client and on the server
to analyze our performance.
And we're much more focused
on optimizing for those.
There are a couple of things that we
pay special attention to in our kernel.
One is Mach messaging in IPC.
Mach messaging is the underlying
communications mechanism that's used
throughout many of our frameworks.
We want to make sure we
optimize well for it.
Another thing we pay particular
attention to is the scheduling
latency and the interrupt latency.
This is the underlying
technology that allows us to
do our real-time performance.
It also directly affects
the system interactivity.
Just being able to switch
between different tasks,
get things done on scheduling time,
is very important to our system
because it directly affects our users.
I also want to say something about the
monolithic versus microkernel debate.
I think about every
six months on Slashdot,
I see something go by that raises
everyone and everyone gets to put their
opinion on whether microkernels are
good or monolithic kernels are good.
Mark is a microkernel,
its architect is a microkernel,
but we use our kernel, X and U,
as a monolithic kernel.
So we build BSD and Mach together
and the device drivers together to
actually build a monolithic kernel.
Now we do this to minimize the
transitions across the kernel boundary.
That's really what we do.
And we find that what we want is that
when the code path goes into the kernel,
we want to get all of its
work done before it comes
back out of the kernel again.
So that's where we kind
of lie on that debate,
I guess.
So here's our friend Darwin.
There's been rumors out there
that he was pining for the
fjords or something like that.
So we can kind of put those
rumors to rest because we finally
have our open source release
of the Darwin kernel for Intel.
And I think that actually
hit MacForge yesterday.
So we faced some kind of challenges
in making sure this got out.
We've written lots of new code,
as you can imagine,
over the last year or so to
complete the internal transition.
And we had kind of a management
priority to make sure those
products shipped to our customers.
And that was definitely
the priority at the time.
Now, when you write lots of new code
and you're doing open source,
it does take some time
to review the code,
engineer around code that
is actually encumbered,
and making sure that it's all clean
before we can actually release it.
And that did actually take us some time.
The other thing is that
we really wanted to--
We want to preserve the ability to
build and run the sources on the system.
We probably could have thrown an
open source kernel over the wall much
earlier that wouldn't build and run,
but we find this to be
not very useful to you,
the developers.
We want to make sure that everything
worked well before we got it out there.
I did make a note that there are
some caveats here that some of
the first release does require
you to pull some kecks over that
aren't on your original systems,
but in general we'll be able to
take care of that as we go forward.
So I want to emphasize that
Darwin is very important to us.
And there's really two
reasons I always quote.
One is that it's really for you guys.
It's transparency for you guys.
You guys can look at the system
behaviors in the source code.
If you want to know how
the fork system call works,
you can actually go get the
source and look through the code.
You can actually modify the code,
build it, stick it on your system.
Even if 90% of you guys never do this,
it's good insurance just to
have the ability to do it.
And we really appreciate that.
And we want to make sure
you guys have that ability.
And then the second reason is actually
transparency to security review.
And we really believe,
since this is kind of the
core of the operating system,
that's important to have the sources out
there for security experts out there in
the community to be able to look through
and give feedback on the kernel itself.
And last thing is thanks
for your patience.
We're glad to have it out there,
and we're looking forward to
our regularly scheduled releases
of the open source kernel.
Let's wrap up the overview.
There's a lot of detail
to how the kernel works.
A couple of months ago,
there was a book release.
Now I get no kickbacks or anything,
and Apple's not actually associated
with the publishing of this book.
But it actually is a great
reference for Mac OS X in general.
It has several chapters on
how the kernel works itself.
If you're interested in the details
of Mac IPC and things like that,
I really recommend you pick this up.
It's about 1,600 pages.
I found it riveting reading.
Some of you guys just might
find it a good reference.
Let's talk a little bit
about developer features.
64-bit,
it's a big theme here at the conference.
If you haven't heard this before,
I'm just going to kind of
reiterate some points that were
from the State of the Union.
The new 64-bit Intel systems,
the Mac Pros,
inherit what we call Tiger parity.
We're enabling 64-bit processes
through basically our Unix interfaces.
And we're using the standard
programming model that we used
previously on PowerPC machines.
So it's 64-bit longs and pointers.
We're still writing the
kernel as a 32-bit entity,
but we enabled the large address
spacing on the 64-bit processes.
And this allows us to have
full compatibility with
the drivers in the kecks.
So the big news for Leopard is
that we're actually going to put in
support for all of our frameworks,
including like Carbon and Cocoa.
And that will enable all the applications
that are actually using those frameworks
and not just the Unix interfaces to
actually get full 64-bit benefits.
And there's a talk here about
how to actually enable your
drivers for 64-bit to actually
address more large memory systems.
Now, I want to talk a little bit
about how we got to 64-bit
support for the Intel systems.
And on the left here is
our address space map.
If you look below 4 gig,
what you'll see is basically the address
space map for our 32-bit machines.
And you'll see your 32-bit address space
sitting beside your 32-bit kernel space.
We were usually referred to this as a
4/4 split for the kernel and user space.
Some kernels use a 3/1
split or a 2/2 split.
And in those cases,
you'll actually see the
kernel underneath or above,
but not overlapping with the user space.
We actually made this split
so we could actually get full
utilization of the virtual memory,
both for user and kernel,
and allow our applications to be
able to address the full 4 gig.
: It does mean that there is a little
bit bigger boundary to move across from
user to kernel because now we have to
actually swap out the address space.
But you'll notice that in 64-bit,
you have your 64-bit
address space above that.
And you still have your
32-bit kernel space.
So we don't actually take that hit
when we go back and forth between
user and kernel for 64-bit processes.
Now, there is still a boundary there
that actually takes some time.
But we don't actually have to
swap out the address space.
So on our 64-bit machines,
we run our 32-bit kernel in what's called
compatibility mode on Intel machines.
And that basically means that it's
the 32-bit mode of the architecture.
The big joke here,
so the 64-bit user space,
the size of this right here,
is actually 47 bits.
So if you really thought you
were getting full 64 bits,
no, we took some away from you
and we're only giving you 47.
That's actually an architectural
limit to the current Intel chips.
There is a kind of a dead space
above 47 bits that actually
will give you a general fault.
If you actually try to address
that on the current architecture.
But note that 47 bits gives you
128 terabytes of addressable space.
And if you want to do
kind of the math there,
128 terabytes really is a lot of space.
So before you go complaining to
developer relations that you really
need 48 bits of addressable space,
make sure you do the math.
It's a lot.
The other point is that in
the Intel architecture that
you actually get to use when
you're in actually 64-bit mode,
you get to use twice as many registers.
So for the general registers,
there's eight on IE32,
and when you're in 64-bit
mode on these machines,
you actually get to use 16.
So there are some performance
capabilities that you get beyond
just the large address space.
Unix.
So standard Unix interfaces.
We've supported the POSIX standard
Unix interfaces for quite some time.
In Leopard,
one of the things that we want
to do is move our default,
all of our behavior to
the Unix 03 standard.
But we'll still support
all the legacy behaviors,
it's just the default will be Unix 03.
And you can kind of switch back and
forth even today between these behaviors
with POSIX C source as a define.
It's just that you will get the
POSIX behavior by default in Leopard.
If you target your binaries
to Tiger or earlier,
you'll automatically
get the legacy behavior.
If you do this in Xcode,
you'll automatically get the
legacy behavior and things
shouldn't change in general.
You can check the main pages.
I think we've updated most of
them to actually explain what
the default behavior is now and
what the legacy behavior is.
There's a specific talk here about
developing porting Unix applications
that will go more in depth on
what these interface changes are.
But I do want to talk a little bit about
the kernel changes for this because
there are some catches and I want
to make sure that people are aware.
The first one is the Pthreads now support
all the mandatory cancellation points.
Cancellation points in Pthreads
are used to synchronize the
proper termination of the thread.
It gives you a point to
register a callback handler,
release all the resources
before the thread is terminated.
The legacy behavior is that we
only support cancellation points
on exit and pthread_text_cancel.
And now we support all 55
mandatory cancellation points.
So they're in very small font here,
but the gist is there's a lot.
Most of you that are porting
things on the POSIX layer and
the Pthreads layer probably are
porting from other POSIX machines,
and they probably already support these
cancellation points and register callback
handlers and don't have any problem.
You really only have to be aware of
this if you've written one natively
and have relied on the fact,
for some reason,
there aren't many cancellation points
and not registering a cleanup handler.
And then down here at the bottom,
I just have kind of the syntax
to register the cleanup handler,
which is pthread cleanup push.
And you basically give it a cleanup
routine and the set of arguments for it.
The next one I want to make sure people
are aware of is partial reads and writes.
I've always considered this a bug
in Mac OS X more than a feature.
So when performing a read of a size
larger than what is left in the file,
the legacy behavior is actually
to send back what is left of
the file and an error and set
the error node to end of file.
So if you say we're trying to
read 128 bytes and there were
only five bytes left in the file,
what it would do is it would give you
those five bytes and then set the EOF.
The conforming behavior is actually to
set the five bytes and send you back
how many bytes were actually read,
which would be five.
And then on the next read,
you'd get the error in the EOF.
So if you're using read and write
and actually looking into files,
you want to make sure that you have the
correct semantics for the partial reads.
Partial writes are very similar if
you're writing to a device and it's full.
The semantics of writing only a
partial write are pretty much the same.
They'll change to where you
write the partial write,
you'll get the number of
bytes written and no error.
and then on the next one,
you'll actually get the error.
A couple other minor ones.
Controlling terminals.
All processes now get a
controlling terminal by default.
And this wasn't the case in Tiger before.
And you can actually opt out of
getting a controlling terminal,
but you have to specify it
with the no CTTY option on an
open or one of the other calls.
The only thing to note here is
if you're actually relying on the
fact that there's no controlling
TTY in one of your programs,
you may have to nohup your processes,
for example,
to keep the controlling TTY there.
So just be aware of that.
And likewise,
there's another minor nit with
sending signals to process groups.
For example, kill process group,
the system call.
If you send the sending processes in that
process group that you're trying to kill,
it will also get killed now.
The default behavior before was
that it would not get killed.
It would kill everything
else in that process group.
So we're also adding a new
system called POSIX Spawn.
The idea here is that fork and exec
actually will copy the address space,
even if you're going to exec
it right away and get a whole
new copy of the address space.
They will copy the address
space of the parent.
And the solution to this back
in BSD and other Unixes was
to move to vfork and exec,
which would not copy it,
and therefore was faster.
The problem with VFork and exec is it
wasn't just a faster version of fork.
It left you kind of semantically out
in the open between that VFork and exec
to make modifications to the child that
would reflect directly into the parent.
So, for example,
if you were trying to mark it as set UID,
it would actually reflect that
change back to the parent and mark
the parent as set UID as well.
So we actually prefer POSIX Spun because
semantically it's a lot safer than VFork.
So you can do a few things to it,
like pass file descriptors or change
user and group IDs or signal mask.
But you actually have to do it
specifically from the arguments.
And that's semantically a lot better
than just relying on the point between
your vFork and exec to do those things.
So you get all the speed benefits of
going to VFork without kind of being
out there in the open and exposed to
bugs and reliability in your system.
So just as an example here,
I put some of the syntax.
And this just basically
is positive spawn.
You have to give it a PID to return.
You have to get what it's going to exec.
In this case, it's just going to do
a cat on etsy password.
These null arguments here is where you
would actually put arguments to actually
pass the either the file descriptors
or change the user and group IDs.
And then you basically have the
arguments to the command that
you're execing and the environment
that you'd want to pass into it.
So we encourage people to look
at POSIX Spawn if you're using
Fork and Exec in your programs
and take advantage of that.
This last developer feature I'm
really excited about is Dtrace.
So if you went to the
developer state of the union,
you heard that Ted talked
a lot about X-Ray.
And D-Trace is really kind of
the fundamental building block
of X-Ray and being able to
make custom X-Ray instruments.
This is a port of OpenSolaris
of their dynamic tracing.
And it's used for profiling,
isolating code paths, exploring behaviors
across the entire system.
It goes through kernel and user code.
The design is really great.
It's really designed to be near
zero overhead in production systems.
So, I'm going to talk about some of
the kind of new technology in the
industry in that most of the profiling
tools that you had were either on
while you were developing or kind
of on test systems that were set up,
and you had to use special
software to use it.
And this is compiled in.
It basically uses a set of static
probe points that are around what
we'll call contended routines.
And these are routines that you have
to carefully get the information out
of because of locking primitives,
etc.
And then it also does dynamic probe
points dynamically in the code.
And it will actually go in and insert
code in line to pull out the profiles.
So this means in a production system,
it has very little effect at all,
near zero overhead.
Because the static
trace points are no ops,
and the dynamic trace points
are in the code at all.
And when you actually
turn on the tracing,
it's relatively lightweight.
It only traces the points
that you have specified.
And you can feel safe about turning
this on in production systems and
being able to see what behaviors
are going on in the system.
So this is just a short example of
showing that this basically will
return any processes in the system
that are trying to do the kill syscall,
so trying to send kill
signals to other processes.
And you basically can just
run this on the system,
and it will start giving you exactly
which processes are running kill.
And you can go explore from there.
There are just thousands of uses
that you can make scripts for.
The D language is a scripting
language akin to more like awk.
It's a little esoteric,
but for all the old Unix hands,
it probably looks familiar in a way.
And there's two talks
that I'll refer you to.
One is we have a
dedicated talk to DTrace.
And that will go over the
D language in much more detail.
The performance analysis tools talk,
which will talk about X-Ray and how they
make custom instruments out of D-Trace.
X-Ray is a great UI on top of D-Trace
to allow you to do these system traces
graphically and see them in real time,
what your application is doing.
So I'll move on to some
infrastructure features.
So we're starting to see
larger and larger systems
coming out of the Mac division.
The newest Mac Pros that we just
released are the largest yet.
They're two dual core processors,
so they really look
like a four core system.
It supports 16 gigabytes of RAM.
And we're also starting to see
that the apps are more demanding.
We're definitely pushing the
envelope on graphics performance
and I think what Peter Graffagnino
referred to as wow factor.
And the frameworks are starting to
support this easily on the system.
So we're seeing ever increasing number
of threads usually take advantage
of the multi-core architecture.
And these applications are
accessing a lot more data,
and they're a lot more media intensive.
And we don't really see
these trends lighting up.
So to keep up with those trends,
we're going to do some enhancements to
the kernel itself to make sure that it
transparently still gives performance to
the upper layers of the software stack.
So a couple of these enhancements.
The first one is the
schedule architecture itself.
And we've always used a
flat scheduler architecture,
where all the processes and threads
actually go into a flat run queue.
We're moving that model to a hierarchical
model that will actually reflect
the hardware that it's being run on.
The load balancing between that
hierarchy will be automatic
and transparent to the user.
And we're also going to do
more idle processing without
actually using an idle thread.
And that will actually reduce some
of the context switch over time
that we see in our current system.
But the important thing to take away
from this is through all the switching,
we're going to maintain our interfaces
and our current system behaviors.
So all the real time
scheduling interfaces,
you'll see the same
interfaces being exported.
All the priority interfaces,
they'll be exported too.
And this should just be transparent
to the applications themselves.
Likewise, in the virtual memory space,
we're actually doing some more
advanced paging algorithms to
support the larger memory and
the greater use of that memory.
We'll be changing our working set
algorithms to be more efficient as well,
so that the code that you're actually
running in your application should
be stored in memory more efficiently.
We're actually making changes
to the dynamic pagers so we can
allocate swap files on demand.
Instead of keeping on increasing the
swap file space and only using that.
So that will actually limit the
amount of swap files that are on disk,
or the size of the swap files on disk.
Another area that we have to look
at when we're looking at these
larger machines is resource limits.
And we've kind of looked
all the way through all the
resource limits in the system.
What we're wanting to do in
Leopard is actually target a
number of them to become dynamic.
An example of that is
the number of open files,
so that we can actually scale up the
number of open files according to the
size of the system and according to
the application workload dynamically,
so you don't have to set
it on the system at all.
Likewise,
we are actually adding support to
cloning device drivers and this
actually means more terminal drivers or
TTYs will be available to the system.
And probably the thing to note
there is if you have an application
such as VPN or a heavy use of
consoles in your application,
there should just be more TTYs
available on the system to be
able to write the application.
We're also looking at some of
the default limits on the system
and we're having to bump them up
because we're just supporting larger
machines and larger workloads.
So, for example, previous to Leopard,
we're only supporting 100
processes per user and now
we're bumping that up to 266.
[Transcript missing]
And the last thing is we're actually
going to start enforcing some limits
that were never enforced before.
In the mating of Mach and BSD,
some of these limits actually
don't span that boundary.
And we're actually going through and
re-architecting the accounting for some
of the resources to make sure that we can
actually enforce some of these limits.
And most of these limits are
actually per application.
So I've listed out some of them here.
The maximum virtual address space,
the maximum resident memory size,
and the maximum amount of
wired memory in the system.
And we'll actually hook those up.
They were completely unlimited before,
but being completely unlimited will
also allow a rogue app or an app
that's not well behaved to go ahead
and use everything on the system.
And that's not the behavior
that we want for our system.
A little bit about
security infrastructure.
One of the things that we took a
hard look at for the Intel transition
was the use of task for PID.
Task for PID is actually part of
the Mach messaging infrastructure,
and it allows you to get a task
port for any PID on the system.
And it allows you to
inspect that task port.
And starting with our Intel machines,
our Tiger-based Intel machines,
we actually kind of locked down
the security of Task for PID.
Task for PID is a very powerful tool.
It also can be a relatively dangerous
tool if it's not used correctly.
So we wanted to make sure that it
had proper privileges around it.
So that behavior on the Tiger-based
Intel systems is that processes
are allowed to inspect their
own task port without a problem.
But they must be privileged to
inspect another process's ports,
meaning privileged that
they'll have to run as root.
Now, we had to make an exception
because a lot of our debug tools
use TaskForPid to do their job.
So we actually made a separate set of
groups called proc view and proc mod
that will allow you to get task ports
for other processes in the system.
But you have to be set GID, those groups,
and you also have to
be a related process.
Now currently what we call a
related process is basically that
the effective UID is the real UID.
In Leopard,
the thing that will change about that is
we'll probably be a little bit stricter
about how we define a related process.
We'll probably use group sets and
saved UIDs to make sure that we're
a little bit tighter about which
processes these debug tools can inspect.
An example of debug tools that
use this mechanism is GDB and
Sample and malloc-debug.
Most applications never
use this mechanism.
So another area of security that
we're looking at is actually creating
policies for more access controls
in the lower levels of the system.
So we're adopting the mandatory
access control framework.
So this was originally
developed for trusted BSD.
It was ported in the community to Darwin.
It was a great starting point to
start from for our architecture.
It's basically an architecture for
authorization points in the kernel.
The authorization actually
works via a callout mechanism,
so you can actually implement
the policy out in user space.
Examples of these policies
are things like SE Darwin,
which is, as you can imagine,
similar to what SE Linux does,
if you're familiar with that project.
But you can have other policies.
There's a BIBA policy and many
other different policies that
can be implemented this way.
It works through having labels
on objects and subjects.
And objects are things like sockets,
file system objects,
and subjects are things like processes.
And these labels are actually
stored persistently in our
extended attribute architecture.
And then there's a mechanism to
load policies and arbitrate between
multiple policies in the system.
You can actually layer these
policies on top of each other.
Note that we're not actually
exporting the interfaces in Leopard
to use this directly by developers.
What we want to do is create this
infrastructure and create a simpler
mechanism to use it by the upper
level applications in the system.
We are actually adding sandboxing
support in Leopard as well.
Now, there's actually a lot more
about this from the security
team in a separate session,
but I just want to kind of
introduce you to the concept.
It's based on the Mac framework.
It's basically a process-based sandbox.
It's defined by a text profile.
It has a language that those
profiles are written in that the
sandboxing engine interprets.
It doesn't require any
special privileges to use it,
but you cannot escalate
privileges based on it.
This is actually included
in the developer seed,
and there's some examples in user share
sandbox of profiles being applied to,
I think, three system daemons.
And it's designed to be very
cooperative with applications.
It's really designed
with you guys in mind.
We'd really like to have
your feedback on this.
The idea is that if you have
an application that just
needs one set of privileges,
that you can write a profile that
will sandbox it and only allow
that one set of privileges out.
And there's a lot more information
in the security talk about this.
So just to summarize
some of the points here.
For data-intensive applications,
welcome to a fully 64-bit enabled world.
We kind of put a lot of this
infrastructure in Tiger,
and we're going to reap all
the benefits of it in Leopard.
So we're believers in standards,
and we believe standards are good.
It helps in porting applications.
It helps you guys to see a
common set of interfaces.
But be aware that we've made some
changes here from our legacy behavior.
And make sure you don't step in
any of the potholes involved.
We are still very committed to
the open source Darwin kernel.
We believe DTrace is a great tool
throughout the system for you guys to
actually explore the system behaviors and
optimize your applications on the system.
And the last point is just feel
confident that the kernel on
Mac OS X is keeping up the performance
and scaling for your application,
hopefully completely transparent to you.
The whole idea of the kernel is that
we help you by running your system
as fast as possible on the hardware.